[Music]
Good afternoon everyone. Thank you for
being here.
This is our regular board meeting of the
board of trustees, El Paso Community
College District and it is being held
today, Wednesday, March 26, 2025, 4:30,
what is it?
4:35. And this regular meeting will be
held uh is being held here in the
administrative services center located
at 9050 Vicount Boulevard, board of
trustees, room 82 housing, El Paso,
Texas,
79925. and it will be viewable through
the EPCC YouTube channel. Refer to the
link
https
colonwww.youtube.com
user/goepcc. The meeting is called to
order. Can we have
um let's see Dr. Smith lead us in the
pledge of allegiance.
I pledge allegiance to the flag of the
United States of America and to the
republic for which it stands, one nation
under God, indivisible, with liberty and
justice for
all. Can we do the roll call? Roll call.
Mr. Xer. Oh yeah, he's here. Mrs. Robas,
not here. Miss Naha will not be here.
Mr. Mendes, here. Dr. Graham, here. Mr.
Hagerty is running late
today. Item 1.4, approval of minutes.
There is none. Item 1.5, welcome to
guest and staff
members. And welcome. We have a nice
group here today. Item 1.6, Six, open
forum. There is none, Dr. Graham. Item 1
1.7 presentations by individuals,
groups, and organizations. Item 1.7.1,
Mr. Scott
McKin McIntyre. Thank you. Managing
director of Hilltop Securities Asset
Management LLC will present the
endowment fund investment strategy.
Welcome, sir.
Thank
you. Let's see. Is this going to appear
or do I need to do
something? I know it's loaded.
There it is.
Aha.
Okay. All right. Um,
and just so you guys know, there's a lot
going on in the market right now.
There's a lot going on in the economy
right now. Um there was some concern,
rightfully so, that inflation was going
to spike and uh yields moved a little
bit higher on that and the Fed is on
hold because there's so much uncertainty
and there's been a real turn in terms of
expectations for the economy. Now
investors in the market are positioning
themselves for recession and that is
related entirely
to the the tariff threat to be honest
with you. Uh nothing nothing else.
There's a lot of uncertainty with
businesses right now. If you were a
business, you would be disincined to
spend and invest and buy new equipment.
As a consumer, you're worried about your
job. You are concerned uh basically
about the economy going forward. So
you're not spending. There's there's a
lot going on. We also have the
businesses have imported a tremendous
amount in front of tariffs and and
exports have also fallen. And all of
those together and of course government
spending has also been reduced in the
first quarter. All those together mean
that economic growth right now is
trending according to the Atlanta Fed
GDP now measure at negative 1.8%. I
don't think it's going to be negative
for the first quarter when all said and
done, when all the numbers are in, but
definitely has been a slowdown in the
economy. So, um, interest rates are not
too far off from where they were. U, the
Fed again is on hold. The expectation is
at some
point. They will more likely cut rates
in the second half of the year than
raise rates, but the Fed doesn't know
what it's going to do. So, it's going to
have to take a cue from the
administration as will the rest of the
world. Um, as far as the endowment is
concerned, pardon
me. Uh, this is um this is this is
actually helpful. There's a there's a
Bloomberg survey that comes out once a
month where they survey 80 odd
economists. Well, 80 economists, not odd
economists. Um, and I think it's really
interesting if you look at GDP
expectations for the next six quarters,
the economists don't know either. So,
they're all gluming around this central
tendency of 2% growth. Um, and and that
goes out for almost two years. The
unemployment rate they expect it's
currently at 4.1%. They expect it'll
move up to 4.2. That really is kind of a
bailout in my opinion. They're basically
not wanting to make a prediction. Um
they believe the Fed will cut rates
starting in the summer and cut by a
quarter point in the third quarter and a
quarter point in the fourth quarter. Um
and then it'll basically stay near three
and a half%. I think all of that could
change within a day or a week. Um so I
wouldn't put a whole lot of stock in
that. I do think
that holy
smokes get into the investment strategy.
what we want to do even though rates
have been generally staying put uh and
we have had some issues with the
safekeeping agent getting everything set
up. I believe that things are set up at
this point. So this is going to look
somewhat similar to what I presented the
last time. What I would like to do is is
invest these monies out along the curve
so that we can lock in the cash flow to
to be able to fund your scholarships
going forward. And to the extent that is
possible, I I would like to see most of
that placed out longer on the curve.
So retaining 1.5 million in investment
pools or liquid products. I I understand
that that
that liquid pool rate will generally
fall. But I like the idea of having some
of this liquid because we're not going
to know where things are going to go.
And obviously you're going to have some
uh scholarships to fund initially. 12
million out in in $2 million blocks uh
going out six to seven years. The
estimated yield there is about four and
a quarter. Uh 12 million out in the 5 to
sixyear range. Estimated yield of about
415. 3 million out in the four to five
year range with an estimated yield of
four and 3 million out in the 3 to four
just about 4%. This moves around a lot.
It's actually a little bit higher today
than it was when I put this together.
Obviously, the higher yields, the more
you're going to have uh in terms of
income spun off of that that will allow
you to fund scholarships. This is a
conservative approach. You're not going
to be in full faith in credit treasuries
instead of, you know, other things. We
feel like this is the best approach. We
don't believe that this this puts the
principle at risk in any way.
Um and all of these treasuries will have
coupons that pay every six months. So
despite the fact that the securities
will be placed out in a ladder going out
from roughly 3 to seven years, you'll
get coupon payments regularly that will
allow you to be able to fund the
scholarships that you're intending to
fund. So
um I think that pretty much wraps it up.
I I I recognize that you guys might have
some questions. This is generally a
pretty simple, straightforward,
conservative as it should be for your
your
endowment
strategy. Yes, sir.
Okay. Let's take the first the third
point. Purchase 12 million US traders
securities in blocks of pro. Now, you
don't mean that you're going to make one
bond purchase for 2 million. Is this
you're you're going to make an aggregate
of of uh bonds that will work up to 2
million? Are you going to is does this
say I'm going to make one $2 million
purchase? They would be $2 million
blocks. So you would have that would be
one purchase. So in the case of this six
to seven years, we'd make six purchases
in that sector. Um probably you know
roughly every two months. So that would
be spread out. But yes, that's that's
the intent. So they would be they would
be a 2 million I mean a single single
bond of of 2 million. So that when you
say a block that's essentially the size
of side of the deal. Yes sir. Okay.
Do we have any other questions?
No. We're good. Thank you. Okay. Thank
you sir. I appreciate the information.
Of course. Of course. Thank you all very
much. Yes. Dr. Graham. Yes sir. I would
just add that this uh meets part of the
requirement in the
resolution for presenting to the board
the investment strategy for the student
success endowment fund. So uh Mr.
McIntyre was presenting the proposed
investment strategy as required in the
resolution. The next step will be at the
next board meeting will bring forward a
request for an action. Um if you all are
in favor of to vote on accepting this
investment stat strategy as required by
the resolution. Thank you. And how often
will we get this update sir? So this
update uh right now per the resolution
there's an annual update that is
required in September. every September
the uh
investment strategy and how it's doing
will be presented to the board along
with the composition of the portfolio
and the performance of the portfolio. So
that is will be presented every every
September. If you require more updates,
we would be happy to provide that
anytime you want.
Thank you, sir. You're welcome.
Okay. Item 1.7.2. Dr. William Sarata,
college president, will recognize
individuals who have retired from El
Paso Community College.
Dr. Graham and members of the board. Um,
as I've expressed in the past, it's
always bittersweet to see our employees
reach this phase, but we certainly
understand and we wish them nothing but
the best in their next chapter in life.
Um, we're going to begin this evening.
We're celebrating the retirement of
Leticia Tish
Alvarez
[Applause]
after 23 years of service with El Paso
Community College. Our beloved colleague
Leticia Tish Alvarez is retiring from
her role in the human resources
department on March 31st, 2025.
Throughout her distinguished career,
Tish has been an invaluable asset to the
college, making a lasting impact on both
staff and faculty alike. Tish joined the
EPCC family on February 1st, 2002. Over
the years, she has consistently
demonstrated exceptional skills and
dedication to supporting employees and
contributing to the college's mission.
She began her career as a benefits
assistant, transitioned into a senior
benefits associate, and finally became a
benefits specialist. She also took the
role of an employment specialist
services within the human resources
department. From her passion for helping
others and building a strong rapport
with faculty and staff, she brought a
wealth of experience in talent
acquisition, employee benefit
management, and human resources. Tish
went above and beyond to answer
questions and support EPCC employees as
well as retirees. During her time in the
benefits office, she worked on several
projects, including the teacher
retirement system of Texas monthly
reports, assisting employees with leave,
conducting new employee benefit
orientations, offering benefits to new
and eligible employees, and guiding
employees at the end of their careers to
retirement. Tisha's been open to change
and learning how new and learning new
processes to improve the services we
provide to our employees. She dealt with
employees from the start to the end,
from new hires to retirees. In addition
to her professional contributions, she
has always been a warm and caring
presence. She has built strong
relationships with colleagues across all
departments. As she transitions into
retirement, we reflect on her
exceptional career and her impact on the
lives of those around her. Her
dedication to helping others in the
college community has been nothing short
of inspiring. We wish Tish and all the
all the best in her retirement filled
with relaxation, adventure, and the
enjoyment of time spent with family and
friends. While her presence will be
greatly missed, her contributions will
continue to shape the human resources
department. Thank you, Tish, for your 24
years of remarkable service. Where are
you, Tish? Come on.
I know the board's gonna
Are you ready?
[Applause]
Next we have Miss Elia Veronica Gaval.
She began her absolutely give her a
Thank
you. She began her distinguished career
at El Paso Community College in 1989.
Starting as a work study at the Vivede
uh campus in data systems under the
mentorship of Dr. Carol K. Her journey
at EPCC has spanned over three decades
marked by dedicated service to students,
staff, and faculty in various roles
across the college. In 1990, Miss Gaval
moved into the public relations and
marketing department, filling in as a
secretary under the guidance of Olga
Tavaris. Then in 1991, she was hired by
Tony Sanchez as a student assistant with
the women's center at the Rio Grande
campus. Her next role took her to the
registars's office at the VI at Vivede
in 1992 where she worked as a
registration aid under Bonnie Gasas. I
knew Miss Gasus, by the way, and Martha
Campos. Later that year, she joined
testing services as a part-time
employee, eventually being hired
full-time in 1994 as a testing clerk.
Throughout her 33 years with testing
services, Miss Geral worked under the
leadership of several exceptional
supervisors, including Kay Lambert,
Carolyn Button, Gloria Palos, and the
late Barbara Hicks, and currently
Christy Garca, director of testing
services. She became a certified test
administrator for various tests such as
ACUPPLACER, TSIA2, KIPP, TOEFL, DSST,
GED, and Thea and assisted with college
readiness testing at local high schools.
In the last 17 years, her focus has
shifted toward working with faculty and
and students at instructor testing
services. Her service in this area and
wealth of experience have made her an
integral part of the team. In addition
to her professional responsibilities,
Miss Gabell was an active was active in
campus life. In 1992, she was a student
government association member and served
as a secretary for the WCCR student
radio station. She also participated in
the Loshanos mariachi group for many
years, bringing her passion for music
and commit and community to EPCC.
Throughout her time at the college, Miss
Geralwa has enjoyed attending staff
retreats and building meaningful
relationships with college with
colleagues. After 36 years of dedicated
service to EPCC, she has decided to
retire and embark on a new chapter in
her life. She looks forward to taking a
well-deserved cruise and continuing her
interests in ceramics and line dancing
through EPCC's continuing education
programs. El Paso Community College and
Testing Services will never forget Miss
Gabal for her commitment, hard work, and
the positive impact she made throughout
her career. We wish her all the best in
her retirement.
[Applause]
That's right.
We need children.
[Applause]
And finally, we have um Miss Debbie
Toins.
She has proudly dedicated nearly 50
years to supporting the students,
faculty, and staff of El Paso Community
College. Originally from Austin, Texas,
she began her journey at EPCC in 1976 as
a part-time telephone operator at the
Trans Mountain campus. In 1980, she
transitioned to a full-time role in the
telecommunications department, working
at all campuses except the Mission Del
Paso campus. In her role, Debbie
contributed to EPCC's mission by
training employees in effective
telephone etiquette and new
communication systems. Later, she took
on a program she she took on a program
assistant position at the technology
resource center where she focused on
modernizing processes, scanning and
electronically uploading grades for
faculty and providing training to ensure
a seamless transition to new systems. In
2019, she moved to EPCC TV where she
currently serves as an administrative
assistant. A proud graduate of Andrew
High School, Debbie achieved her
Bachelor of Arts in Social Psychology
from Park University while balancing two
jobs. Her dedication extended beyond
EPCC as she also supported military
students as a computer lab assistant at
Webster University. Debbie has been an
active advocate for her colleague ser
colleagues serving as vice president of
the classified staff association at the
VA campus and as a member of the of the
rights and responsibilities committee
where she addressed workplace concerns
and planned campus events. Her extensive
involvement in numerous EPCC committee
committees highlight her wealth of
knowledge and experience. Today Debbie
looks forward to dedicating more time to
travel and family. She dreams of
revisiting destinations like China and
Mexico as she embraces this exciting new
chapter. Congratulations and thank you
for nearly 50 years of service, Miss
Toys.
Please go
ahead.
Congratulations playing
Boy, that's a lot of
experience
combined.
Congratulations again to all our
retirees and we hope to see you at the
retirees events.
Okay.
Item
1.7.3. Optional presentations will be
made by the presidents of the classified
staff association, the professional
staff association, the faculty
association, and the student government
association.
I'm glad I got here just in time.
I would have been highly disappointed if
you hadn't been
here. Uh, Judge Hagerty, I look forward
to your
comments. Uh, welcome everybody. Thanks
for coming. Um, earlier this semester an
issue came up. I'm not going to go into
the details of it, but it's a rather
controversial issue among the faculty. A
lot of faculty felt very passionate
about it. I myself included. I felt it
was something we didn't need but
something that was going to happen. And
when it came up I encouraged faculty to
send their comments in to institutional
effectiveness during the 21-day review
period. And a lot of faculty did and
they were very very very very excuse me
they were very passionate about it and
they had some good
suggestions and uh eventually just
recently
uh administration members of the
administration working with myself as
faculty president working with the
presidents of the classified and
professional staff we came to a
conclusion that I hope everybody can is
satisfied with I know I am. Uh so I
would like to thank now President
William Sarata, Vice President Smith,
AVP Field who's back there somewhere. Um
and uh director of institutional effect
for helping us get through this rather
sometimes difficult controversy. But uh
so yeah, thanks for coming together and
listening to the voices of faculty and
uh coming to a conclusion. So thanks
again. Appreciate it. Thank you, Dr.
Bur.
Section 1.8, communications. Item 1.8.1,
discussion and review regarding data,
statistics, policies, and general
information related to El Paso Community
College by the board of trustees. Uh,
Chair Hagerty, members of the board, um,
I have asked Dr. Carlos Amaya, uh, to
provide the board with, uh, an update on
spring 2025 enrollment. Uh, I want to
thank Dr. Jeremiah and all of his team
for the great work that they've done.
Um, as you go through it, um, we are at
the highest point uh, on spring
enrollment that we've been since uh, the
spring of 2020, which was the first term
of the pandemic. Um, again, Dr. Mia and
his team did great. Also want to
recognize and thank Dr. Maya for the the
baseballs that you all are receiving.
It's the 30th anniversary of the
baseball team. By the way, the baseball
team is 25 and seven. Yes. At this
point, they are having a great season.
Um, many thanks to coach uh Susi and all
of the coaches for the great work that
they're doing. But Dr. Amaya, please.
Yeah, thank you, Dr. Sarat. I'll I'll
just jump before I start here, I'll just
let everybody else know. Uh, baseball's
on the road this week at New Mexico
Junior College. Another tough team.
They're going to do great though. We're
expecting them to. I hope Coach Susi is
listening. Um, and then they'll be back
home April 4th and 5th against Howard
College. EPCC EPCC softball is 4-0 in
the Western Junior uh College Athletic
Conference after sweeping Frank Phillips
this past weekend. So, uh it's a great
scene out there. I've been seeing Dr.
Sata out there, uh Judge Hagerty. So,
it's a very nice event. So, I encourage
everybody to go. Uh so, uh good
afternoon everybody. Chair Hagerty, uh
Dr. Sarata, board members, colleagues,
community members. I'm happy to join you
all this afternoon to provide you all
with an enrollment update for the spring
2025 semester and to share a few
division initiatives that support our
enrollment and student success goals.
I'm going to note because I'm coming
from student enrollment services that
this work is a
collegewide work, right? Enrollment. We
we refer to your messaging a lot, Dr.
Graham, that we're all recruiters. We're
all responsible for uh enrollment at the
college. So it's the daily work of the
faculty, staff, leadership, my cabinet
colleagues, their respective division
leadership, Dr. Sarata's leadership and
support and guidance provided by the
board of trustees that contribute to the
results we see
today. So Dr. Saratas just spoiled my
surprise, but I'm just kidding. Uh, so I
I figured I was going to start with
this, right? We're going to kick off by
sharing this great news. This spring
enrollment is showing a 5% increase over
2024. We're up over 24,000 student
students as of last week, which is
really great. And I put that little
applause emoji, not expecting the
audience to applaud or anything, but uh
or to think about that,
right? I I thank you. You're you're
applauding for yourselves and all the
good work that you're doing. So, uh, if
you look at the the enrollment figure up
there, what you can see is this is
showing the different student types. Our
continuing students represent 54% of our
enrollment. And then early college, high
school, PEK, and dual credit enrollment
represent another 39%. So, the majority
of our enrollment goes to continuing
students and uh, early college, PEK, and
dual credit
enrollment. If we continue looking at
student type, you could see we we have
significant gains in continuing educa
continuing students, which is a marker
that we always look at. So those are
students that are already enrolled at
the college. And what they're doing is
they're showing us that the good work
that our faculty and staff are doing
merits them returning. So up, you know,
almost 400 students over the previous
semester. We also see strong enrollment
in dual credit, early college, high
school, PETAC, etc. So, we're doing uh
really well in in these individual
areas, and we continue to see that we're
providing great opportunities for the
students out at the ISDS.
If we just look at what spring
enrollment has looked like over the past
four four semesters, we can look at this
trend and see that from spring 2022 up
till now, we keep seeing that increased
enrollment
22,46 in 22 up to 24,06 students as of
spring
2025. We had just started our new uh or
we're just starting our new semester.
So, the number has increased a little
bit since then.
Breaking this down by campus enrollment.
Likewise, we're looking at this this
spring and you could see for the most
part our campuses are showing great
improvement. Look at Trans Mountain at
12% up. Mission El Paso at 7% up and
then dual credit early college PEK at
14% up. So, we're seeing significant and
online also growing. So, up 1%. We're
seeing significant improvement across
our
campuses. In looking at how our students
are enrolling, full-time enrollment grew
by over 4% in 2024. Those are the
shorter the bars, the teal bars. That's
a great indicator because we want our
students to try to attend full-time. We
know that that full-time enrollment
contributes to student success. We also
know that the majority of our students
attend are part-time. And we still see
that enrollment growth over 6% uh over
2024. Our uh major type we're seeing
this is really concurrent. This is this
is a great example. We have 5% increase
in both academic and technical
enrollment which matches our 5%
growth. And then by degree type, we're
seeing gains in associate of applied
science, which is on the far left,
associate of arts up by 9% because we
continue to see that growth in the early
college area. And those are the awards
those stu or those are the majors those
students are are uh signing up for.
Associate of arts and teaching,
associate of science, you can see
continues to decrease. It's been a
steady decrease 10% over the last year,
over the last four years. certificate of
completions continue to increase and
that undeclared is up by a few students.
So it's very few students so a small
number makes that percentage grow. So we
try to get the students to declare to
say what they're going to want to study
but I always think those students have a
lot of opportunities. They're not quite
sure what they're going to do and we'll
get them on a pathway
shortly in instructional mode. I think
this is a really great one and that the
deans can attest to and anybody who's
been on the campuses is that you see the
parking lots a lot fuller. You see
people walking around. You see a lot
more life and the students are voting
that way in those face-to-face classes.
So we see up 6% face toface and 6%
hybrid. And that's a testament to the
work that's going on at the Mission Daso
campus with the 8week sections, the
increase in hybrid classes. And then
online, you could see not as high as
where we were in 22, but a slight
increase over the previous
year. And then in age groups, this is a
really interesting one too that we get
to see that this is also a very recent
phenomenon where we see all the age
groups. You can see our bread and butter
is on the far left side of the of the
figure, but we did see a gain in uh
enrollment in all the age groups to all
the for all the students that we serve.
And then wrapping up this enrollment
report is what's the most challenging
item for students? It's how to pay for
school. And one of the things that
you're going to notice is well, let's
think back last year. Last year there
was the big FAFSA issue, delays,
challenges with when it was going to
come out and not understanding the new
processes. It was the new form. This
past year, a little bit of a delay, but
I'm going to give a lot of credit here.
We've have a great leader in our
financial aid and veteran affairs area,
Missy Nes Lopez, who steered the ship,
made sure that we served our students
properly, and they never had those big
hiccups. And you can see that in that
table, there's two uh rows that Pell
Grants offered. You can see continues to
grow. All students graduating from high
school are required to complete a FAFSA
as a as a graduation requirement. and
then they submit a TPCC and UTP as well.
So we get a lot of students submitting
them to us. The important line is the
second one, the PEL grants paid and you
can see it increasing every year a
significant jump this past year almost
$23 million paid out which represents a
$3 million over $3 million increase from
the previous year.
16% difference from the previous year,
which far exceeds the 5% enrollment
increase. So, our students need this
aid. We can see 88% of our students
receive financial aid, and this is
demonstrating that we're helping them
get that aid as they need
it. So, that wraps up just the basic
enrollment. You can look at the numbers,
but then you would ask me, I'll
anticipate this, right? You would say,
"So, what do we do to support this
enrollment?" And I told you, you know,
it's it's a collegewide effort. But I'll
speak to a few things. And this is
division of student and enrollment
services. My division, it's big, but I'm
not going to go through that whole list.
I'll just highlight a few of the areas
that I think uh really stand out or or
make a big
impact. I'll start since I ended with
financial aid, I'll start with financial
aid. So, as I mentioned, this area is
directed by Miss Lopez, executive
director of student financial aid and
veterans affairs. And so, we get out in
the community, and this is just one
example. This past spring, we typically
do it in the fall, but because of the
delay in the FAFSA, we did it in the
spring. We work along with our partners
at the University of Texas at El Paso
and Texas Tech, and we hold 54 different
FAFSA night events. That means these are
in the evening. our we send teams out to
these schools and they meet with the
community directly. So they are there to
assist the students and their families
importantly navigate the financial aid
process. It ran from the end of January
to the end of February and then it all
wraps up. We just wrapped it up this
past Saturday and this is really excuse
me also a story of partnerships. I
mentioned our higher ed partners also
education service center region 19. We
they host us at the Boeing office this
past Saturday where we open up this
financial aid workshop to the entire El
Paso community and our specialists and
also from the other schools come
together and assist these families. So,
it was a great event and we're going to
continue doing this. And I'll let you
know also is something happened that day
where we have these financial aid
experts from these three institutions
sitting down looking at the data trying
to solve these problems and see how we
can better serve our
students. Continuing with this uh this
is the area that maybe most of you all
are familiar with and that's the
recruitment services led by our director
of recruitment services Mr. Michael
Talamantes who's done a fantastic job.
You can see the list of items under his
area. Um I'm not going to even go
through them all but I'll tell you he's
brought the college together through the
EPCC recruitment network. He's held our
signature EPCC roundup event which is
our parent focused event hosted this
past uh year, this past spring uh at the
Sooto Independent School District D
district service center open to
everybody. So we give credit. Another
example of our partnerships.
It's open to the entire El Paso
community where we bring all our
services plus opportunities for
students. He's also run several open
houses. So you can talk to the deans uh
uh health and CTE earlier this year,
nursing, uh the steam open house at Vay
Verde, the welcome days as students
return every semester. So we are out and
about as well as messaging students. So
we have the ability to text message
students through student bridge and have
a call center for uh making calls to
reach out to them as well.
our admissions and registration
department run by executive director
Cassandra Lachica Chavez. Dr. Lachica
Chavez does an amazing job because she
not only oversees that area but also the
dual credit early college and PEK
enrollment on the student services
side. Likewise, students have a
requirement to submit an apply Texas uh
application upon graduation before
graduation. So we you can see I just
gave you some numbers of the amount of
applications that we process and what we
do. We're we're that front-facing direct
connection with the student and
processing their application and their
enrollment. So customer service is
number one, but really in this area what
I wanted to do is focus on some of the
work that we're doing internally. So,
we've worked with AP Fernandez and his
team to develop this EPCC uh dual credit
early college K through 12 app. We have
a relatively small team, five
specialists, admission specialists
dedicated to processing the 39% of
enrollment that we have from dual
credit, early college, and PEK. And so,
you can imagine the school districts
have to send us rosters and it's a lot
of manual
processes. We're working to automate
that.
have the team from it assisting with
that. So, we're in version 2.0. Version
3.0 is coming up very quickly. That's
going to connect everything to Banner
and let students register. So, we're
seeing good things
happen. And then finally, I'm going to
wrap it up here, which is what's going
on right now, our signature uh premier
enrollment uh initiative for firsttime
in college students. So, I've presented
to the board before, but I know we have
Mr. Mendes. I might have shared this
when I in the during the board
orientation, but this is when we get out
to all the school districts. So, we're
going to have 22 events. We kicked it
off this past Monday. We are already at
uh Harmony uh Charter and they and they
bust in Al Pastor Leadership Academy um
and idea schools. That was Monday.
Yesterday we were at Fabins and then
Tornneo and Sanelli visited Fabins.
Today we are at Jefferson and Burgess
and uh Silva Magnet visited and tomorrow
we're at Soooro High School and you
could see all the dates. So we have
after tomorrow we'll have uh 18 more
dates left. So 19 dates left. This is
really a road show. We take our first
year experience. So thank you very much
to Sandra Duhan and her team Dr.
Mitchell supporting that. Uh that
advises the students. Then they see our
admissions team. They see our financial
aid team. new student orientation
recruitment runs it all and students
leave. Here's the great thing. They
leave that day hopefully with a
full-time schedule in hand ready for the
fall semester. So, lots of great things
going on at the college. Lots of
enrollment and initiatives. We're always
happy to take your advice, any items
that you might suggest, anything that
you think that we can do to get out in
the community or help improve our
enrollment. Thank you for all your all
your support and uh I'll turn it over
for any any questions.
Great job. Oh, good job. Thank you, sir.
I don't have much of a question, but I'd
like to congratulate you all. It's an
excellent teamwork. I I seeing it as a
team and I know Mr. Talamantes and you
know I'll call him with a short notice
and he'll show up with his with his team
you know to certain events that I didn't
realize nobody had mentioned but that's
that's great to see the the effort. One
question I do have is um are we sending
any letters like to the juniors uh or
the sophomores to let them know that
because again we are all recruiters but
I think we need to start recruiting at
prek kinder so that you know they can be
headed in our direction. Um but because
some of the people that I talked to get
all excited because they get a letter
from some college. Do we do any of those
anymore? Well, we have we don't send
direct letters. That's a great idea. We
do have communication with the schools
in the high school because we work
directly with their college and career
readiness specialists or you know those
that whole group. Uh we do have a CRM
coming on board. You all approved that
just recently. So that's going to assist
us with our messaging and direct
messaging to the students. So that is
coming soon.
And we we you know I didn't share that
right now. you mentioned reaching out to
students in kindergarten. Uh under our
recruitment area, we have our college uh
readiness mentors and they work directly
with the adopted schools. So that group
of adopted schools are really getting a
lot of EPCC. And that's where I've seen
some of the parents that that come in
with uh you know saying that their kid
is going to go to EPCC and there's
events there where they're coming in to
sign up or something but they have the
little ones with them and it's it's a
great um connection there for the little
ones to see that the older ones are
signing up for EPCC. Absolutely.
I have one question. Yes, sir. Can you
go back to the second slide,
please? What slide was I looking at?
You're looking at next one. There was a
You had some over to the side. There was
everything was a plus except I thought I
saw a minus 12%. Yeah, there's a couple
early admission. You can see down one
student. And what's the reason? What
What's the reason for that? I I don't
know. I mean, it's it's one. So the
numbers on the side represent we're down
one student. So there are very few
students on that side. These are
students that apply that are in high
school and are going to apply for early
admission uh outside of their their reg
normal school district. We have a few
over here. First time transfers. That's
a few students to 78 students down. Um I
I wouldn't be able to tell you the the
reason why we we were down in those
little in those couple of areas. And
what's
undetermined? uh those are students who
we don't know what it is or don't
declare what where they're going to be.
So or what type of student they are. So
we we fix that later on. We're able to
identify these students, but in this
initial report, they end up right there.
You got to put the first time transfer
with the under and then it'll show a 12%
increase.
Right.
I was just wondering why it was a
negative there. And you have early
admission minus six. Yeah. One one
student down. Yes, sir. There are very
few. That's why it has such a big
impact. Okay. Thank you. You're welcome.
You did great work. It's great. Yes.
Thank you, Dr. Mike. You're welcome.
Okay. I'll let these guys do all section
1.9 board of trustees business. Items
1.9.1, 1.9.2, and 1.9.3 will be
discussed after executive session.
Section section 1.10 10 board reports.
Item 11.10.1 treasures report. No action
is required. Item
1.10.1.1 February 28, 2025 financial
statements. Item 1.10.2 president's
report. Item
11.10.2.1 Dr. William Serata, college
president, will update the board of
trustees and audience on recent events
that have transpired at El Paso
Community College. Good evening, Chair
Hagerty and members of the board. I' I'd
like to begin my report by
congratulating Ingred Leva,
photographer, and Mr. Miguel Valenuela,
art instructor, for having their art
showcased at the Mexican-American
Cultural Center. This accomplishment is
proof of their exceptional talent and
dedication to their craft. Having their
work displayed at such a respected venue
highlights their artistic achievements
and reflects positively on the college's
commitment to supporting creative
excellence. We're incredibly proud of
them and their contributions.
The art department held its first ever
event, its first event in shaping
narratives visiting museum professional
series on February the 20th. The first
museum professional was Rebecca Munos,
the inaugural director of the
forthcoming Mexican Cultural Center, who
addressed a packed audience at the VA
campus. She provided invaluable she
provided valuable insights into careers
and the cultural cent's future. Two more
presentations from professionals
representing the El Paso Museum of Art
and NMSU Art Museum will follow this
semester and they're supported by the
Spring Arts Festival grant awarded to
EPCC and overseen by Isidora Jackson,
associate professor of art at the Vive
campus. We're excited to share that our
philosophy and sociology outreach event
held on March 5th was a tremendous
success coordinated by our faculty Iet
Navaro and Erin Alvarez. The donation
drive supported by the women of the Via
Maria, a local transitional shelter in
honor of International Women's Day
initiated by Stacy Mayo and Dr. Manuela
Gomez. The event resulted in over 1,000
donated items including canned goods,
toiletries, and personal care items
generously contributed by the EPCC
community. Thank you to the philosophy
and sociology faculty and everyone who
participated. The EPCC Forum Theater
presented, "Oh, Dad, Poor Dad, Mama's
Hung in the Closet, and I'm Feeling so
sad. I tried my uh alliteration there."
The production was directed by Carver
and designed for the stage by Dominic
Pagano. Many thanks to all involved for
putting on a great performance and all
the work involved in making that
possible. Spring's a vibrant time for
the arts at EPCC. This month, we enjoyed
the music department's student ensembles
concert and the spring arts festival
open house featuring music, photography,
literature, dance, and more. The month
wraps up with the visiting art curator
series on March 27th at the Vive campus
featuring Michael Reyes, Rebecca Munos,
and Jasmine Eera, all influential
curators with local ties. The series
will also be livereamed for remote
access. On January 25th, the EPCC echo
cardiography program presented an
exhibit at the 13th annual
motherdaughter conference at America's
high school. The conference was great
and it was the it was the most
significant event the program has
attended thus far. Program also
successfully launched the tri the triis
medical record and attendance tracking
system enhancing clinical operational
efficiency. The program also began
utilizing two new Carl Perkins funded
linear array transducers to accommodate
a larger class size of 12 students in
the lab as they learn vascular scanning.
Thank you for your continued support of
our program's growth and aspirations
towards excellence. The Rio Grand B the
Rio Grande Biology Department
enthusiastically participated in the
health career technical education and
STEM division open house on Thursday,
February 13th. They took the opportunity
to showcase the biology disciplines
resources including the anatomage and
zpspace and promote the various programs
by encouraging and interacting with high
school with high school and middle
school students. Special thanks to Dr.
Miguel Vasquez uh Roshanak Jafari Ashley
Bayan and Janth Rodriguez. The 18th
annual regional science bowl was held on
February the 8th at the trans and Trans
Mountain Early College High School won
the competition. This recognition will
allow students to attend the national
competition in April in Washington DC.
All expenses will be paid by the
Department of Energy.
The ASHPA ACP board of directors has
granted the El Paso Community College
Pharmacy Technician Education Program a
six-year reacreditation status through
2030. Special thanks and appreciation
are for Dr. Nater Rasai and his
dedicated faculty for their efforts in
developing and maintaining successful
pharmacy tech training and producing
future pharmacy technicians in the
community. Congratulations on the great
work. Campus life, new student
orientation, student government
association, student leadership, and the
cross-country team volunteers assisted
in distributing food, including canned
goods, boxed items, fruits, and
vegetables to nearly 200 people from the
El Paso Community College community and
beyond. The college partnered with El
Paso's fighting hunger this month for
another successful grocery pickup event
at the Vive campus cafeteria annex. The
next grocery pickup event will take
place on Friday, March 28th um of this
year at 10:00 a.m. at the Mission Del
Paso campus Horseshoe Building. The
event is open to students, faculty,
staff, and the wider community. Thank
you to all those involved in this
initiative to combat food insecurity
districtwide. Chair Hagerty, that
concludes my report. I'm happy to
respond to any questions that the board
may have. No questions for the doc.
Thanks, Doc.
Item 1.11, consent docket. There is
none. Section two, administration. Item
2.1, FFDA local TASBY policy for second
reading and approval.
Move to approve.
Second. Any
discussion? Call the question. Mr. Uxer.
Hi. Mrs. Robless. I. Mr. Mendes. I. Dr.
Graham. Hi. Mr. Hagerty. Hi. Section
three. Personnel. Item 3.1
institutionally externally funded
full-time staff appointments,
extensions, resignations, and
retirements. No action is required. Item
3.2 two tenure track faculty
appointments and new tenur faculty.
Motion motion to approve.
Have a second. Second. Any
discussion? Call a question. Mr. Uxer.
I. Mrs. Robas. I. Mr. Mendes. Hi. Dr.
Graham. Hi. Mr. Hagerty. Hi.
Section four, financial services. Item
4.1, discussion and action to approve an
increase to Weaver and Tidwell LLP for
providing internal audit services to El
Paso Community College in an additional
amount of $13,000 to previously approved
$75,000.
Move to approve, but I do have a
question.
I have a second.
Second. Okay. Go ahead with your
question, John. Uh did we get a clear
idea as to why the increase? Dr. Sarata.
Yeah, I'll ask Mr. Flores to respond.
Dr. Graham, please. Vice President
Flores. Sure. Thank you, Dr. Sarata. So,
uh, Weaver Tidwell was employed in July
of uh 26 of
2024. And so, their first assignment was
to test our compliance with SB17.
They completed that audit and presented
to the board at the February board
meeting uh the results of the
SP17 uh audit. Uh there was still a
remaining balance in the
$75,000 annual budget amount. So they
began uh a study of risk assessment from
which future audit plans would be
derived. So they've conducted some
initial training. In January, they
provided a webinar to the uh cabinet
members, a one-hour webinar on risk
assessment. Then in February, they
conducted a 4-hour workshop to the
cabinet on developing risk assessment.
To complete that uh assignment for risk
assessment evaluation, we anticipate
that there will be uh some more
expenses which 13,000 would cover one of
there. So they're completing the risk
assessment and then they are going to
make a presentation to the board on the
risk assessment review that they did and
the audit plan which will guide the next
three years of audits.
So hopefully there'll be savings there
to recover the 13,000 additional
hopefully as a result of their audits.
Yes, ma'am. I I have a question. I I
guess I don't understand. We had an
initial project was approved for 75,000
and it was completed for less than
75,000. So we assumed a second
responsibility that wasn't outlined and
now we want to pay $13,000 more for
something that wasn't in the original
contract, but we decided just to do it
anyway. Did I miss something out of all
this? So the original contract runs from
uh July 2024 to July 2025. those bridge.
What was the objective of that $75,000?
What was that to cover? To provide any
audit services that the college may deem
necessary. Okay. And risk assessment. So
you're piggybacking a new def an
additional requirement of risk
assessment onto the original contract.
That's correct, sir. Yes.
I I do have a question. Uh this is all
put out to bid, right? these
automatically. You were awarded a 5-year
contract with one-year annual renewals
based upon satisfactory performance.
They did bid for it. Yes, sir.
Absolutely. All right. Just checking.
Okay. And there were a lot of
respondents to that.
Did you have any like areas that you
were surprised when they did the risk
assessment? Well, the risk assessment is
hugely comprehensive. I think the
cabinet members would attest to that.
It's a about eight-page uh document that
identifies all the key areas based upon
Weaver Tidwell's experience in auditing
that are potential areas for audit re
risk and the cabinet rated them on
probability and inherent risk. And so as
a result of all of those areas being
rated, Dr. Graham, over those seven
pages, they are working on a report as a
result of that. that will inform the
administration where the highest areas
of risk are. Uh the the the classic
areas of course are security on in it um
security surrounding funds, revenues,
those kind of things. But their their
risk assessment is hugely comprehensive.
It's it was it was a 4-hour workshop.
Each cabinet member uh provided input
onto the weights associated with each of
those each of those categories. And so
this is how Weaver Tidwell
um is able to assess the institutional
risk as a
whole resulting from that uh based upon
those weights then future audits will be
identified.
Where did facilities fall into that risk
management? It was one of the areas uh
so facilities presents its own
challenges because of deferred
maintenance. That's one of uh u there
there were about eight or nine
categories under facilities uh contract
and construction management
uh is a it was a big item. Facilities
maintenance deferred maintenance uh
plans in the future how you maintain the
grounds. It's pretty extensive and we're
going to get a report on that when they
come back in. So, uh, that that report,
uh, Chair Hagerty is expected to be
delivered to the board at the end of
April. Okay. Provided that the board
approves the increase
uh, today. But it but
it's you know, I'm not a I'm not a
contract specialist, but it seems to me
that if risk estimate is, as you said,
such a huge uh, element, it it seems to
me that it should have been identified
there. And if it if it's such a huge
element and it hasn't been identified,
then I wonder how they're cap how
capable they are of then not being able
to forecast the need for something like
an additional
$13,000 only six months ago. It all of a
sudden something huge all of a sudden
comes up. We need $13,000 that we didn't
anticipate, but we're going to evaluate
you on risk adjustment because we know
what risks are, but they couldn't risk
their own program. I don't I don't
understand all of it. So, a a lot of
that was dependent on how much the SB17
audit would come out to had. Okay. So,
we're saying that maybe they didn't
understand the SBC audit in the first
place and so they weren't able to
properly risk that.
Ultimately, the SB17 cost of that audit
was uh dependent on the extent of their
review of our uh college and unique
policies and procedures. So, isn't that
a risk? That's defined as a risk and
they missed it. So, how good are they at
risk adjustment if they can't even
figure out how much they're going to
need to do what it is they said they
were going to do? I mean, how much how
how much faith can we put in that?
I don't know. I don't have any more
questions. If they don't know what
they're doing, I don't know if I want to
vote for $13,000 for them to pay more to
do something they couldn't do in the
first place, nor could they identify.
Yeah. The only thing I would respond,
Mr. structure is that SB17 was um a new
law that passed in in the 88th
legislative session. Um all institutions
um are conducting um compliance audits
with
SB17. Uh I think it's dependent on uh
it's something new that auditors were
not familiar with. um and the level and
depth of of what is required with
regards to SB17 um was surprising to
even even some of us in the field as a
new law and and that would be the the
explanation that I'd provide for them um
on the extent and how extensive uh they
got into reviewing SB17. If you'll
recall, um they provided some examples
of where initially um there was evidence
of non-compliance with SB17 that we then
had to um remove or change language to
some of our websites um some of our
postings around campus um in some of the
areas. Then they'd have to determine
whether it was in conflict with federal
law versus state law. So I I do give
them a tiny bit of leeway with regards
to SB17, sir.
Well, and it's a good thing that it took
place because you'll have a better idea
the next time that there's the same type
of audit. But move to approve.
I think we already did that. Didn't we
already do? We did. You had a second.
Call a question. Mr. Exter.
Mrs. Robless. I Mr. Mr. Mendes.
I. Dr. Graham. I. Mr. Hagerty. I.
Section five, physical facilities. There
is none. Section six, curriculum and
instruction. Item 6.1, discussion and
action to affirm a three-year contract
with education to go ed to go, a
division of Sgage Learning, Inc. to
provide online continuing education
courses in an amount not to exceed
$80,000 per year.
They sure offer a lot of
courses. Did we have these services
before? Dr. Sarata,
Dr. Graham, we've had the uh contract
with Ediggo for quite a while. Uh I
believe we started that in
um 2018. Don't quote me on that, but
we've had it for a very long time. And
it gives us the opportunity to they
added more courses to it. Absolutely.
That's what I meant that now there's
comprehensive like a lot more than
before
and it allows us to offer any number of
courses that we do not have the capacity
internally to offer.
Move to approve.
Mrs. Rob second.
Any
discussion? Call a question. Mr. Xer.
Hi, Mrs. Robas. I Mr. Mendes. Hi, Dr.
Graham. Hi, Mr. Hagerty. I
Item 6.2, discussion and action on the
acceptance of a grant award from the
Texas Mutual Insurance Company in the
amount of $100,000.
Move to approve 6.2 and 6.3. Second.
Read 6.3. Well, was another grant. Item
6.3, discussion and action on the
acceptance of a grant award from the
Texas Workforce Commission, TWWC, in the
amount of $85,521.
Judge Hagerty, I'd obviously call on Dr.
Smith to provide credit for these um
respective grants. Yes. Thank you. Uh
thank you, Dr. Sata. So, those of us
that are uh well read will see that this
is the 11th year uh of our Texas Mutual
grant. And if my math is correct, that
brings us to $1.1 million of uh grants
from Texas Mutual. Um we've served over
two uh 20,000 uh individuals in the
community, training them on safety in
the workplace, all free of charge to to
those attendees. So, it's it's a great
program and we certainly thank Texas
Mutual in addition to, of course, uh AP
Blaine Primizich and his crew, uh Jose
Kasa Lopez, I think they're in the
audience, and of course our grants
office as well under uh Bob Elliot. So,
great job there. Um the TWWC grant is
the first SBDC grant that we're having
with Bane Construction. So, we're
excited about that. Uh upskilling 102
different uh employees for them in our
region. So, uh, congratulations again to
those same players that I just
mentioned. I got a question with Dr. Is
there any, uh, requirement? Do they just
give you the money and let you guys
decide how to how to train or the the
only requirement is that it's for
workforce safety? That's all it is.
That's it. Yeah. And so, we've uh
created the risk management institute uh
here at the institution uh under the
leadership of Cesy Mau. And so she
coordinates all the training and all the
workshops and uh everything for the
community. So most of the money goes to
pay for the instructors and the
equipment is pretty much. Yeah. Uh the
sessions, the space, the instructors,
etc. Yeah. There there's some supplies
in addition. Okay. Thank you. Yes. Thank
you. Any other
questions? Did we get a
uh a motion to Mr. Dr. Gra? All right.
Call the question. Mr. Hi, Mrs. Robless.
Hi, Mr. Menddees. Hi, Dr. Graham. I Mr.
Hagerty. I section seven, student
services. Item 7.1, discussion and
action on the approval of continuing
education CE tuition rates for new
courses.
Move to approve.
Second.
Any discussion?
Other questions? Mr. Uxer. I. Mrs.
Robas. I. Mr. Mendes. I Dr. Graham I Mr.
Hagerty I item 7.2 discussion and action
on the approval of continuing education
CE tuition rates for revised courses.
I have a motion. Move to approve.
Second. Any discussion? I have a quick
question. Can you just tell what what
are these tuition rates? How do they
compare to, you know, inerson classes?
That kind of thing. I guess generally
Mr. these are much lower tuition rates
than we would charge for credit courses
at the institution. A lot of them are
personal enrichment courses and we base
that on um we we don't necessarily make
money on these. So we attempt to break
even for the instructor costs and
supplies etc. And that's why you'll see
in in some of the um notes uh that
there's a break even number of students
that we need. Okay. So, the the the
purpose of this is uh community outreach
as much as anything else. Uh yes, sir.
And I say generally because oftentimes
we'll bring to the board um new courses
or revised courses that are applicable
to training by TWWC, etc. Those are
charged at a little bit different rate.
Okay. How do we determine like which
courses are going to be off offered in
the children's college area? because
like like robotics and you know some of
the more
innovative things. Yeah, we try to
monitor uh industry or community trends
um and mirror those and so we have a
vast history of what's made in the past
and what sorts of things that students
are interested in. Uh of course we have
great partnerships with the ISDs as
well. So we we kind of keep our finger
on the pulse of what the community would
like to see in regards to those things.
Okay. Thank you. Any other questions?
Call a question. Mr. Xer. Hi. Mrs.
Robless. Hi. Mr. Mendes. Hi. Dr. Graham.
Hi. Mr. Hagerty. Hi. Section 8,
Community Services. There is none. Would
the board like to go into executive
session? Yes. Item 1.3, executive and
close session. The board of trustees may
conduct an executive or close session
pursuant to chapter 551 of the Texas
government code for one or more of the
following reasons. One, consultation
with its attorney to seek or receive
legal advice or consultation regarding
pending or contemplated litigation or
for any purpose authorized by law. Two,
discussion about the value or transfer
of real property. Three, discussion
about a prospective gift or donation.
Four, consideration of specific
personnel matters. Five, discussion
about security personnel or devices. Or
six, discussion of certain economic de
development matters. The board may also
announce that it will go into executive
session on any item listed on this
agenda if the subject matters permitted
for a close session by provisions of
chapter 551 of the Texas government
code. Any vote regarding these items
shall be taken in open session. Item
1.3.1. Discussion with legal council
regarding proposed board resolution to
approve employee award and associated
one-time prospective payments for such
awards pursuant to section 551.074 074
of the Texas Government Code. Item
1.3.2. Discussion with legal council
regarding proposed resolution for the
student success endowment fund pursuant
to section
551.073 of the Texas government code.
Item 1.3.3. Discussion with legal
counsel regarding the possibility of
EPCC joining the rate 41 group to
intervene in the El Paso Electric
Company's current rate case. The time is
now 5:44 and the board is in executive
session.
Okay, the board is back out of executive
session. We're back in regular session.
Uh, Belle, can you read 1.9.1, please?
Yes, sir. Item 1.9.1, discussion and
take possible action regarding proposed
board resolution and approval of
employee awards and associated one-time
prospective payments for such awards. I
have a motion. Motion to approve.
Second. Any discussion?
Um, excuse
me. Discussion. Uh, the motion will be
to um incorporate the resolution into
the
minutes and uh the motion includes for
the proposed for the recent state in the
board's resolution of this date. I move
to approve the prospective one-time
incentive payments to eligible
recipients of the awards in the amount
stated in the board's resolution and to
authorize the administration to
administer these awards and payments
consistent with applicable law and
policy. Again, this will be incorporated
uh the resolution into the minutes for
today's meeting. Okay. Any other
questions? You have a motion. You need a
second. Mr. Mendes. Okay. Thank you.
Yeah, I have a motion and second. Okay,
if there are no more questions, call a
question bill. Mr. Uxer, I. Mrs.
Robless, I. Mr. Mendes, I. Dr. Graham,
I. Mr. Hagerty,
I 1.9.2. There will be no no action
taken. Can you read 1.9.3?
Item 1.9.3. discussion and action
regarding whether or not EPCC will join
the rate 41 group to intervene in the El
Paso Electric Company's current rate
case by entering into an interlocal
agreement pursuant to the interlocal
cooperation act chapter 791 Texas
government code and a confirmation of
engagement with K&L Gates LLP as legal
council in connection therewith.
I have a motion. I make a motion uh for
EPCC to join the rate group 41 group to
intervene in the El Paso Electric
Company's current rate case by entering
into an interlocal agreement pursuant to
the interlocal cooperation act. Second
the motion. Any other
discussion hearing? No, no questions. Go
ahead and call the question bill. Mr.
Ruxer. Hi. Mrs. Robless. Hi. Mr. Mendes.
Hi. Dr. Graham. Hi. Mr. Hagerty. Hi. All
right. Uh further board action. I just
want to remind everyone our next board
meeting will be April the 30th at 4:30
right here in this room. And if there's
no other business, we are adjourned.
Thank you. Thank you all.
[Music]